First came revelations about large political donations from groups with close ties to the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Then came concerns over Beijing’s growing sway over Australian universities. Fears about undue influence within Australian Chinese language media and civic groups soon followed.

Combined, it appeared to be a bold plan to attack democracy from within.

Unofficial channels were being exploited. Interactions were secretive and manipulative.

Such “covert, coercive, or corrupting” foreign influence, former Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull declared when introducing national security legislation in 2017, was “the line that separates legitimate influence from unacceptable interference”.

Searight argues this is a new form of political warfare: “The revelations have turned Australia into a ‘canary in the coalmine,’ a cautionary tale about the ways in which China seeks to covertly influence and interfere with the political process in advanced democracies.”

MORE: Australia has chronic racism says Chinese state media

POLITICAL WARFARE

Warfare has changed. China gets it. Russia gets it. The West is struggling to come to grips with it.

It’s no longer just about combat jets, warships and boots on the ground.

It’s about inducing disorder. It’s about undermining authority, trust and the rule of law. It’s about destabilising one’s opponent from within to win a war without firing a shot.

In 2003 Beijing outlined this ‘three warfares’ idea in its Political Work Guidelines of the People’s Liberation Army strategy.

First, there is media and public opinion warfare. Beijing’s “wolf-warrior” diplomats, state-run media and carefully placed “agents of influence” are heavily engaged on this front.

The second front seeks to exert influence over foreign domestic decision making and policies towards China.

The third front attempts to shape international and foreign domestic laws to support Beijing’s agendas.

Together they represent all-out doctrinal warfare.

“Here, the hostile forces are not heavily armed soldiers threatening to attack China’s territory, but liberal democratic ideals and their corollaries – constitutional democracy, universal values, individual rights, economic liberalism, free media – which have been identified by the CCP as deadly ‘perils’,” writes Lowy Institute senior fellow Nadège Rolland.

“In sum: Whoever rules the words rules the world.”
